In the previous video,
we learned how to set up Theme Kit.
But unfortunately, Theme Kit is not compatible with
the new JSON templating system present in modern themes.
To check if your theme uses JSON templates,
you can head over to the theme section of your Shopify admin and
click on "Edit code" on the theme you wish to inspect.
Then simply look inside the templates directory and see whether
your templates have.json on the end of them or.liquid.
They may be a few here that have.liquid on
them in the customer section and maybe the gift card template.
But if your major ones have article.json,
cart.json, index.json,
pageproduct.json, if these ones are all.json,
then you're working with a theme that uses JSON templates.
In this case, you'll want to use
the Shopify CLI instead of Theme Kit. Here's how we do that.
What I'm going to do is head back to the theme section here,
and I'm going to open up the official article on how to use Shopify CLI for themes.
I'm going to type that literally into Google Shopify CLI for themes.
You should find this article comes up towards the top.
Click on that one on the official Shopify developer website.
Here you can read all about Shopify CLI for themes.
Shopify CLI has been around for a while now,
but only recently at the time of recording allows for theme development as well.
As you can see here,
Shopify CLI replaces Theme Kit for most theme development tasks.
You should use Shopify CLI if you're working on Online Store 2.0 themes.
That's essentially themes with JSON templates.
Let's go down and look at how we install Shopify CLI.
I'm just going to open that up in a new tab to keep this one open.
Here you can see the guide for installing it.
We won't get deep into installation in this video.
Here's the instructions here,
depending on whether you're on a Windows,
Mac or Linux computer,
just make sure you have Ruby 2.7 or higher installed on your computer.
How you verify that is to open up the terminal.
For most users you're going to use the Terminal app.
But I have something called Item,
which is my terminal app.
I'm going to run the command ruby-v to figure out my version.
As you can see here,
I'm running Ruby 3.0.2,
which is greater than 2.7, so we're good.
Here you can see the instructions on Mac.
I've got Homebrew installed,
so I just went through these installation instructions and it was pretty easy.
I'll give you a second to install it, if you haven't already.
Pause this video and come back to it when you finished installing.
To verify that you have installed,
you just type in Shopify version and you should
get back a version number if you have the CLI successfully installed.
Now that we have the CLI installed,
close this window and go back to our getting started guide.
I'm going to scroll down here to the command references,
how Shopify CLI works.
It's a little bit different to Shopify Theme Kit in the sense that Theme kit,
you have this one configuration file, the config.yamlfile.
You pass into that file a password, a theme ID,
and the store that you wish to connect to
and how it authenticates is through a private app,
where you put that password from the private app into that config.yaml file.
You would've seen all of this in
the previous video so if you don't know what I'm talking about,
go back to that one.
But how Shopify CLI does it is they authenticate in the beginning.
Once you're authenticated, you can start to serve themes locally.
How we do that, I'm going to go into the Shopify CLI core command reference first.
Let's click on that one and look at login.
Login authenticates you to the Shopify CLI.
This is the first step to basically doing anything on Shopify CLI.
An important thing to note here is that you can't use the CLI
with development stores if you only have partner staff member access.
What that means is if I go to partners.shopify,
which I often do,
and login to the store via my partner account,
so I'm going to go into stores and then see here, Chris Testing shop.
If I click login through this link,
I'll be logged in through the partner account and I will
likely get an error when I'm trying to authenticate with the Shopify CLI.
That's an important thing to note.
If you are working with a development store,
you can't use your partner login.
What you need to ensure instead,
if I go back to my Shopify store here and go into my settings,
is that I'm logged in with the admin or store user account.
Clicking on plan here,
sorry not plan,
users and permissions,
you can see here that the store owner is Chris Testing shop admin,
and that's the account that I'm logged in as.
This should work. Heading back to online store themes,
let's run the Shopify login command.
I'm going to go back to my terminal here,
run clear to clear up those previous commands and let's run Shopify login with
the perimeter of store and then we just copy the my Shopify address of the store.
I'm going to go in here, copy that.
Hit "Enter" and it'll start to log us in. Now logged in.
Usually a separate tab is open,
I think because I'm already logged into the store.
It didn't come up with that tab,
but just to show you.
So if I log out,
Shopify logout, you can see I've successfully logged out the account.
I'm going to clear again and then run that command,
Shopify login with the store address.
Hit that and you'll see it opens up a new tab for me to login.
From this list of accounts here,
I've got to choose the one that is the store owner,
which I believe is this one and it says now authenticated successfully,
you may now close this page.
I'm just going to look in my terminal and you can
see here it says you've logged into the store.
I should be all good to go now.
That's all we really need from the core commands, login, logout.
You can also populate your store with data.
A lot of cool little features of this tool right here.
I encourage you to check out the documentation.
But I'm going to go backwards and go into the theme command reference now.
The button right under the core command reference.
Let's go in here and you can read all about the different commands.
The first one, Shopify theme in it
essentially does what it says here clones a Git repository to
your local machine and it also creates a copy of the Dawn example theme.
If you want to start theme development from scratch,
this is a good little command to use.
But what I'm going to do instead is just like we would in Theme Kit,
I'm going to connect to an existing theme.
The way to do that is through Shopify theme serve.
But we need the code from that theme
downloaded on a local machine first before we can serve it.
If I go back here, you can see even though this store was created before June 29,
2021, I have installed the Dawn theme.
This is the new theme that uses the Online Store 2.0 paradigm.
As we saw before,
it's one of these modern themes that has.json
files in the templates folder, as you can see here.
That's what I'm going to use as my theme that I'm going to work on with the Shopify CLI.
What I'm going to do is just like we do with Theme Kit,
I'm going to find the theme ID of that theme,
which I can find by going into the customizer and grabbing that part of the URL.
I've got that in my clipboard now.
What I'm going to write here is one of the commands you can see here,
which is Shopify theme pull.
To use this command you just write
Shopify theme pull and then you put in this parameter --themeid,
followed by the theme ID.
What I'm going to do is first make a directory inside this Skillshare directory.
I can do that through the Command on Mac, MKDIR.
That's the command for making a directory.
I'm going to call it the same as the theme, dawn-main.
Now I have to run the command CD dawn-main to navigate inside that.
From here I can run the command.
I'm going to do Shopify theme pull --themeid equals followed by the theme ID,
which I seem to have lost here.
Just going to go quickly grab it again and hit "Enter" on that.
You can see it's pulling the theme files from that particular theme.
Pulling just means downloading.
In a few seconds,
we will see that that will finish.
I'll fast-forward and meet you at the end.
That's finished downloading now,
so I'm going to head into that directory.
You'll see in my Skillshare folder here,
there is a directory called dawn-main.
That is the one I created with this mkdir dawn-main command.
Inside it, you can see I have all my theme code.
Now that we're inside this folder,
we can start to run the command Shopify theme serve to serve that theme code locally.
But before I do that,
because we're going to be editing some code,
I'm going to stop using iTerm and start running commands inside my code editor app.
This is a bit different, I think,
from the original videos in the class.
But I'm now using a tool called VS Code provided by Microsoft.
I'm going to open up that one.
It'll look a bit different to the other code editors in this class.
But still, all the same principles apply.
We just have this terminal here that we can run inside the code editor.
I'm going to clear this terminal just like we did on iTerm and from within here,
what I'm going to do is run the command Shopify theme serve.
Shopify theme serve and while that's loading up,
as you can see here, I'm going to go
into the documentation and let's talk about what this is doing.
It's going to upload the current theme.
Wherever your terminal is running from,
if there's theme code in there,
it's going to run that and it's going to create a development theme.
Now, this is a new concept.
Development theme is like a Pseudo phantom theme.
You'll see in just a second that it creates
a theme ID and we're able to view it and edit the code.
But you won't actually see it in the theme library on your Shopify store.
You'll see that in just a second.
Instead, you'll get a link to the development theme
and link to the online editor as I just mentioned,
and a preview link.
For all intents and purposes,
you get all the same features as a normal preview theme,
like if you were using and working with themes on Theme Kit.
But this one is generated when you run Shopify theme
serve and disappears when you run Shopify logout as it says here.
Of course, the theme code continues to stay on your computer and you can
also push and publish the code once you're ready to go live.
But we'll see that in just a second.
If I go back to my code editor now,
you'll see that the process has now finished.
I'm just going to open up a terminal so you see more here.
You can see that it's serving to this local address that we can look at in the browser.
What's interesting is here you can see we've got a theme ID.
You can see the preview link has that theme ID
and the theme editor link has that ID as well.
We can go in, we can customize the theme as we usually would
using the same theme editor that we would use on any theme,
and we can preview the theme using this link and share it with people on the Internet.
If we share with them this link,
they won't actually be able to see it because this is a local link.
But this one right here is a public link that we can share with people.
As you can see here,
we've got this strange little theme name,
development followed by a little code.
Like I mentioned before, if we go into our theme library here,
even if we refresh the page,
the theme won't appear in our theme library.
It's like a disposable theme that has an ID,
has a customizer, but doesn't actually get stored on your Shopify store.
If we head over back to that theme customizer link,
we can, of course, move some stuff here and edit this.
But what's weird about this theme editor in the development theme is that it doesn't
appear that these changes get stored outside of this session that we're running.
If I switch over to my local link,
you will see that the change occurs.
I'm talking about the theme editor changes here.
You will see that it occurs,
but when we push our theme code changes to the store later,
you'll see that this won't actually push to the store.
We can customize and play around with the theme editor here,
but this won't actually save once we push.
Be very careful with this with the CLI.
I'm not sure what the thinking is here from Shopify,
but I've gone and tested it and the data doesn't actually change where it should.
This is just all throw-away data.
I'm going to close that down and I'm going to close
this public link down as well as we don't need it anymore.
I'm just going to refresh our local development link.
Now the cool thing about Shopify CLI compared to
Shopify Theme Kit is what happens with
Theme Kit is it's not actually running a server at all.
What its doing is editing files directly on your Shopify store.
Then you have to, of course,
click View or Preview on that theme in order to see
those changes and it's all served through the Shopify store.
Shopify CLI changes this now because we can serve that theme
locally and what this means is that it gets updated much quicker.
Let me show you what I mean by this,
because this is a little bit of developer's pick and for those beginners out there,
you might not quite understand what I'm talking about here.
But if I go in and let's make an edit.
Let's say we edit this bar up here.
We're looking for announcement-bar__message.
I'm just going to use my code editor to find that piece of code.
Instead of block.settings.text escape,
I'm just going to put in.
I just want to show you this side-by-side so you can see this happening.
Close this down, close this down.
Let's have a look at what happens when I change this code.
Let's change this to Announcement bar text,
something generic like that.
I'm going to hit Save right now and look at what happens.
You'll see that without me even reloading the page over here, it changes.
It's detecting changes and updating it here on our local server.
Now remember this theme does not exist in our theme library over here.
It just exists on our local computer.
Of course, we've got these links here,
we can share with other people.
But we're not actually affecting code on the theme of
a theme that's stored in our theme library here.
This is all just served locally.
I'm saying that a bunch of times just so that it'll sink in.
But you'll see with experience if it doesn't quite make sense yet,
what that means if you compare working with Theme Kit compared to Shopify CLI.
I'm going to make another change here.
Let's just change the background color of
this announcement bar to something random like blue.
Hit Save on that. You'll see that that updates as well.
That's a pretty obvious change.
Let's open up these to full screen again.
What I'm going to do is push these changes to our Shopify store.
Let's head back to the documentation.
In our theme commands,
you can see this command here for Push.
Before we do that, however, there's also this command
here that we might want to run called Theme Check.
We've only made a very minor change.
But if we've made a lot of changes,
maybe we want to run this command which will check our theme for any errors.
I'm just going to close down the server because we're ready to make this change live.
Run Shopify Theme Check.
You'll see here there's a bunch of offenses.
A lot of this is not particularly critical.
Obviously, these errors were probably running before I even made those changes.
I'm not sure what you want to do with that, but that is an option.
If you want to run Theme Check,
I'm sure it comes up with critical errors.
If you have any in your code,
most of the time now it's pretty clear to see when those errors come up in your browser.
But what I'm going to do now is head over to push
and here you can see we can upload local themes to Shopify,
overriding the remote theme if specified.
We can put in an options object here,
or we can just simply write Shopify.
I think I'm going to run these side-by-side again, so you can see.
Let's increase the size of this.
I'm going to do a Shopify theme, push.
Here, if I don't specify any options,
it will actually ask me where I want to push this code.
I can push it to any of the themes already in my theme library, which is pretty cool.
I'm going to hit Command or Control C to break out of that and what I'm going to
do is do Shopify Theme push --unpublished.
Hit that and it will now create
a new theme in my theme library to create a new version of this theme with.
It'll push the code that I've created my local theme into the theme library.
I'm going to call it dawn-two, let's just call it that.
Now, it's going to basically deploy that code to
a new theme called dawn-two in my theme library on the store that we're connected to.
That will take a little bit of time to complete,
so I'll see you after that finishes completing.
Now, it says that my theme was pushed
successfully and that I can now view or customize it.
But I can also head to my store,
expanding my windows here and refreshing on the store.
You'll now see that I have a new theme called dawn-two here.
If I click Preview on that,
it has all the changes that we made on top of
the original dawn theme that we made earlier in this video.
We essentially just created a new preview theme.
Last step here, and this is not really necessary to use the CLI for,
but we can also use the CLI to publish themes as well.
If I head back into my terminal here,
I'm going to run Clear and then run Shopify theme,
publish with no options.
It's going to ask me which of the themes that
aren't currently published I want to publish.
I'm going to select dawn-two here and it asked me,
are you sure you want to make dawn-two your new live theme?
If I hit Yes,
that'll now complete that process.
If I go back to the theme library and refresh the page,
you'll see that dawn-two is now my live theme,
and dawn-main has been knocked down to my preview themes.
That's how to use the Shopify CLI for theme development.
It's a little bit more complicated than Theme Kit, I would say.
But it has more modern features and it's more developer friendly,
so take some time to get used to it.
If you have any questions at all,
obviously, leave it in the comments.
But that is the Shopify CLI.
In the next few videos,
we'll be learning about
some basic Shopify admin and then getting into our theme structure.
After we talk about our theme structure,
then we will talk more in depth about these new JSON templates.
I'll see you in the next video.